.TH fmel 1 "February 11, 1997"
.SH NAME fmel
.SH
\fBfmel\fP \- projection of linear system on subspaces xi = 0
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
        fmel [-pcl] input_fname_with_suffix_'ieq'
.SH DESCRIPTION
fmel reads a system of linear inequalities and eliminates choosen
variables.  That is,  fmel projects the given system to the subspace
given by xi = 0, for i is contained in I, where I is the index set
of the variables that should be eliminated.
.sp1
The set I and the elimination order are given in the input  file
by a line containing   the   function   specific   keyword
"ELIMINATION_ORDER", followed by a line containing exactly  dim
integers, where dim is the dimension of the problem.
.sp1
A '0' as the i-th entry of the line indicates that the i-th variable 
should not be eliminated, that is, i is not in I. An entry
'j', for 0 < j < dim, as the i-th entry
of the line indicates that the i-th variable should be eliminated
in  the  j-th iteration. (All nonzero numbers must be different
and it must be possible to put them into an order 1,2,3,4...)
.sp1
fmel writes its output into a file, whose name is obtained 
by appending ".ieq" to the filename of the input file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Unbuffered redirection of the  terminal messages  
into the file input_fname_with_suffix_'prt'
.TP
.B \-c
Generation of new inequalities without the rule 
of Chernikov.
.TP
.B \-l
Use a special integer arithmetic 
allowing the integers to have arbitrary lengths.
This arithmetic is not as efficient as the system's
integer arithmetic with respect to time and storage
requirements. 
Note: Output values which exceed the 32-bit integer storage size 
are written in hexadecimal format (hex). Such hexadecimal format can
not be reread as input. 
.so man1/ieq.1
.SH SEE ALSO
porta(1), dim(1), iespo(1), portsort(1), traf(1),
fctp(1), posie(1), vint(1)
osie(1), vint(1)
