\"  LAST EDIT: Tue Oct 14 12:07:08 2003 by Andreas Loebel (boss.local.de) 
.TH poi 1 "February 16, 1994"
.SH FORMAT OF '.poi' - FILES
.SH
The first line contains the dimension of the problem.
.nf

        DIM = dim
.SH
In general, lines consisting of a capitalized keyword are 
significant for input recognition. Such keywords can be 
.nf  
  
    COMMENT
    CONV_SECTION          
    CONE_SECTION          
    END  
.SH
and function specific keywords (such as ELIMINATION_ORDER).
There is no restriction concerning the order of sections.
.sp1
The keyword
.nf  
       
    COMMENT 
.SH
causes the programs to ignore the text until the next capitalized 
keyword occurs.
.sp1
Usually the input contains a set of points to be considered. 
If this is missing (the case of a cone)
the origin is assumed to be feasible.
The list of points is started by the keyword
.nf

        CONV_SECTION 
.SH
The following lines until the  next  keyword
contain  points, each in one seperate
row with exactly dim rational  values, given 
by numerator and denominator. A denominator with
value 1 can be omitted. A line number in parantheses 
at  the  beginning  of  the  line  is  optional:
.nf 

 (ln)  num1/den1  num2/den2 .......   numdim/dendim
.SH
Also the input may contain a set of vectors spanning
a convex cone. Such a set starts with the keyword
.nf

        CONE_SECTION
.SH
The  requirements for the vectors are the same as for points.
.nf

        END 
.SH
is needed to terminate the input file.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf

file 'example.poi':
DIM = 3

CONV_SECTION
 3 3 0
 5/3 1 0
 1 5/2 0

CONE_SECTION
 0 0 2/3

END
