.TH porta 1 "February 21, 1997"
.SH NAME porta
.SH INTRODUCTION
Porta is a collection of routines for analyzing polytopes and
polyhedra. The polyhedra are
either given as the convex hull of a set of points plus (possibly) the 
convex cone of a set of vectors, or as a system of linear equations and
inequalities.
.sp1
The name porta is an abbreviation for POlyhedron Representation  
Transformation Algorithm and points to the basic function 'traf'. 
This function performs a transformation from one  of  the
two representations to the other representation.
.sp1
For this, 'traf' uses a Fourier - Motzkin elimination  algorithm
which  projects  a linear system on subspaces xi = 0. This 
projection of a given  system  of  linear  inequalities  can  be  done
separately by using the function 'fmel'.
.sp1
Sometimes it is of interest to know all integral points contained  in
a  polyhedron  which  is given by a system of linear equations and
inequalities. For this one has the  function 'vint' which
enumerates all the valid integral points within given bounds.
.sp1
As a special function in this context 'fctp' checks the facet 
inducing  property of a set of linear inequalities for a polyhedron 
given as a convex hull plus a convex cone.  
The function 'fctp' uses a  function 'dim', which computes the 
dimension of a
polyhedron given as a convex hull plus a convex cone.
.sp1
Finally 'portsort' is helpful  to  make datafiles  readable.  
portsort sorts and formats given systems.
.sp1
All functions read and write the data from  and  to  files.  Such
files can be manipulated by the user with a default texteditor.
.sp1
porta guarantees correct numerical results, because only  integer
operations  are  performed. If an arithmetic overflow occurs with
the systems integer arithmetic  then  the  computations  can be
restarted with a multiple precision integer arithmetic.
.SH SEE ALSO
dim(1), fmel(1), iespo(1), portsort(1), traf(1),
fctp(1), posie(1), vint(1)
